I'm home!
Adult adam:  My dad was
the least complicated guy
on the planet.
His first order
of business
Was to always
be comfortable.
That meant parking his pants
at the door.
His hobbies included
sleeping in his chair...
(snoring)
...Watching fantasy island.
Oh, don't worry, boss.
Adult adam:
Sleeping in his chair...
Oh!
...Yelling at the phillies...
(shouting)
what is that pitch?
...And sleeping in his chair.
(snorts)
Even his parenting style
was simple
And always involved
choice vocab words.
Hey, you morons.
Stop being morons.
Unreal.
I raised a moron.
Why you got to be a moron
all the time?
He wasn't
a complicated guy
Or, frankly,
even that interesting.
But every once in a while,
He was accidentally reveal
Something about himself
That would make you feel
like you didn't know him
at all.
All right, all fixed.
Wow!
Where did you learn
how to do that?
Army.
What?
Did you say "army"?
Dad, is this you
and lou reed?
Yeah, we, uh,
waited tables together.
What? Tell me more.
Eh, it was
a whole thing.
Wait! Come back!
I want to know you!
(video game beeping)
Pull up! Pull up!
You're gonna crash
the plane.
I was in a plane crash once.
Nap time.
Adult adam:
Yep, some people
glorify the past,
But not my dad.
To him, it's like
it never even happened.
Oh, my god, murray,
you're not gonna
believe it.
I just got off the phone
with your old high school.
Your record
has been broken.
Whoa, wait.
Dad had a record
in high school?
What kind of record?
Chili! He loves chili.
It's something to do
with chili.
True, but that's not it.
Your dad set the record
For most free throws
in a row
At central high.
Like, in basketball?
What... What are you
talking about?
What can I say?
We won state.
Uh, I hit 79 free throws
in a row.
Uh, what do you
want from me?
Murray, the high school
wants you to go back
So they can honor you
at the game Saturday night.
We get to stay downtown,
And there's gonna be
a banquet.
A banquet?
That's the fanciest
of all food parties!
I know!
It's a very big deal.
Here's the thing
about that.
Pass.
No pass.
Pass!
I already told them
you'd be there.
Why would you do that?
You know I don't have
an interest in things.
Is this for real?
I mean, we've never even
seen you touch a basketball.
Yeah, I mean,
I can't believe this.
It's one of my dreams
to play in the nba,
And you never
once mentioned it?
Didn't see
how it was relevant.
Oh, it's relevant.
What you gonna do?
Huh? Huh?
Not much more
than what I'm doing
right now.
I want you to show me
what you got,
free-throw king!
Are we, uh,
done here yet?
No! You were clearly
some type of popular
high school god.
Tell me
what it was like.
I don't know.
I, uh, dated a lot of girls.
I went to parties.
I got elected
class president
a few times.
Lunch lady gave me
free jell-o.
Eh, the usual.
Not usual.
That's the opposite
of my life.
The lunch lady said
I look like the warlord
who burnt down her village.
I'm going in.
No, wait, wait! Come on!
I thought you were gonna
give me some pointers.
Unless you want me
to give you some.
How about
from way downtown?
Hope you brought
an umbrella,
'cause it's about to
rain some 3s!
Swish, baby!
Fundamentals!
Intangibles!
Unselfish!
Basketball!
And that's
how you do it.
♪ I'm twisted up inside
♪ but nonetheless
I feel the need to say
♪ I don't know the future
♪ but the past keeps getting
clearer every day ♪
'sup, lexy bloom?
Ready to break the seal
on this new yearbook,
or what?
Uh, sure.
Adult adam:
This year, barry left
an entire page blank
For the one signature
he cared about...
His dream girl, lexy bloom.
"have a bitchin' summer,
gustav?"
I'm not the swedish
exchange student!
I'm speaking english
to you!
Swing and a miss.
Aw, you love her,
and she thinks
you're from sweden.
I've spent all year
trying to make
a name for myself,
And lexy bloom
still doesn't know
who I am.
She's so lucky.
If only there was a way to,
like, have a casual
get-together
With the coolest kids
from school,
Like, at our house,
But without the formal,
sit-down dinner.
I think
you're describing a party.
Oh, my god.
I have the greatest idea.
I'm gonna throw a party.
Mom and dad
are staying downtown
Saturday night.
(gasps)
I'll invite the whole school!
Whoa, hold on.
Uh, I want you
to think about this...
High-school friends!
This Saturday night,
I'm inviting you
to the best party
In the history
of william penn academy,
Thrown by yours truly!
Boy: We love you, gustav!
No! I'm barry goldberg!
Doesn't matter!
Party at my place!
Adult adam:
For the next few days,
Barry spread the word
all over school.
It was gonna be
a wild rager,
And nobody
was more excited
than me.
Oh, man.
My first high-school party
With r-rated language
and adult situations.
This is my "risky business."
Damn right!
There's gonna be dancing,
fistfights,
Pizzas on record players,
Hot cheerleaders
jumping from the roof
into the pool.
We don't have a pool.
Don't we?
Blow this up.
(gasps) sweet!
I'm gonna go
grab my inhaler
and get started.
Okay!
I got twister
and ashtrays.
What time's
this party kicking off?
Whoa, wait.
You're okay with this?
Uh, look,
I... I don't condone
lying to your parents,
But I've been tracking
your highs and lows
this year.
And frankly,
you need this.
Awesome!
Only thing left
is to make sure
Mom and dad leave
without suspecting a thing.
Okay, love bugs.
Pops is in charge
while we're away
for the evening.
Have fun.
No fun here.
We're just gonna sit here
bored to death
Waiting for you
to come home.
Oh, well, in that case,
throw on some shoes
and join us! I insist.
Then it's settled.
We're coming.
What are you doing?
Panicking.
Okay, if the kids
come with us,
I'm staying home.
Great! Stay.
What's wrong with you?
The more the merrier.
You're a stupid,
stupid boy.
You... You two just go.
I'll hold down the fort.
All right.
Dinner's in the fridge.
(sighs)
that was a close one.
We make a good team,
guys.
Dover: (on mic)
ladies and gentlemen...
Adult adam:
While barry couldn't wait
to start his epic night,
My dad was still indifferent
about his.
Dover:  ...Captain of the 1961
state championship team
murray goldberg!
(whistle blows)
(all cheering)
Adult adam:
...Until this happened.
What the hell's
going on?
What's wrong
with these people?
Nothing.
They love you, murray.
(chuckles)
Adult adam:
For my dad,
the past was the past.
He never wanted to be
One of those guys
always recounting
his glory days.
But for one shining moment,
he decided to embrace it.
All: (chanting)
chomp, chomp, chomp!
Let's go, beavers! Let's go!
Chomp, chomp, chomp!
(whistle blows)
Adult adam:
My dad hadn't picked up
a basketball in years.
But by the end
of the first half,
He was ready to suit up.
Oh! (laughs)
That's how we do it,
beavers!
Dover:  Okay!
Yeah!
Just want to take
a quick moment
To welcome back
murray goldberg.
In honor of his
25-year-old record,
We'd like to present him
With a ball
signed by the entire team.
Murray, come on down.
(all cheering)
Whoo!
Hey, hot stuff!
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
All: (chanting)
shoot the ball!
Shoot the ball!
Really?
What are you doing?
Shoot the ball!
(chuckles)
That's my husband!
Adult adam:
The moment my dad
stepped to that line,
He realized he was still
that kid from high school...
An athlete, a legend,
a champion.
And then, he did this.
(camera shutter clicks)
got it!
Boy: You suck, old man!
(all laughing)
All: (chanting) air ball!
Adult adam:
In his defense,
That was a very common
shooting style
Back in the day.
But as the chant
of "air ball"
rang through the gym,
It only confirmed to my dad
That he didn't belong
on that court.
He belonged
in front of the tv
In his underpants.
But this wasn't
the most embarrassing display
of the evening.
That belonged
to my brother's epic party.
It was 9:00,
And the only people
that showed up were me,
Roger mcfadden,
who brought bugles,
And gustav,
the foreign-exchange student.
Later. I'm going out.
Wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait.
Look... Look what's
happening in there.
It's a pure
sausage fest.
The bugles are
for hot chicks only!
You're a popular girl.
Invite some of
your friends over.
The poor guy needs this.
Barry: (shouts)
shut up, gustav!
It's called
being fashionably late.
Fine. I'll call
a couple of my friends.
Thank you.
(indistinct conversations)
Adult adam:
Nowadays, all it would
take is a tweet.
But back then,
one phone call
worked just as well.
I thought you said
"a couple of friends."
All I did
was call lainey.
You wanted barry
to have fun, right?
Look at the guy.
He is the man.
Welcome to  casa de barry,
ladies!
Looking good.
Nice pants, random dude.
Told you I'd rock.
Is the party
like a rap video,
or what?
Move over,
aunt rose's 50th,
This is the hottest party
this dining room's
ever seen.
Holy crap.
It's lexy bloom.
She came!
She's here!
What are you waiting for,
man?
Chiclet me.
Whoa, girl.
I see you found
the vip section.
What makes this
the vip section?
'cause I'm here.
Anything you want,
I'll make it happen.
Fruit roll-ups?
Bagel bites?
Flintstone vitamins?
The world's
your oyster, baby.
See?
We just gave
your weird little brother
The best night
of his life.
Whoo!
The party has arrived!
You go to school
with him?
I do not.
And we're out of hand.
Who wants
to take a shower?
Adult adam:
By 10:00, barry's party
was blowing up...
But not as much
as my sister.
Hey! Stop!
You're spilling everywhere!
You!
Stop making out
in my dad's chair!
He lives there!
(sighs)
What the hell?
That's my mom's!
Why are
you wearing that?
Oh, it's a sweater party.
That's not a thing.
And I put a sign
on the stairs
that said "off limits."
Ah, yeah,
that piece of yarn broke,
So we all just kind of...
Helped ourselves.
"we?"
(indistinct conversations)
Off!
Everyone take it off!
Yes! It's happening!
Take it off!
Adam, go upstairs!
Well, the sign says
it's off limits.
The yarn is broken.
Upstairs.
I said "upstairs"!
Okay.
This is officially nuts.
You need to put
an end to this.
Me? You're the adult!
I'm the cool grandpa.
I can't be the bummer.
You be the bummer.
Oh!
Uh, there's a pizza
on the record player.
(needle scratching)
it's bad for the needle.
You people are disgusting!
What the hell
are you doing?
It's a sweater party.
That's not a thing!
Stop encouraging this.
You need to shut it down.
Shut it down?
No way!
This is my party.
And I say we rage on
until the crack of dawn!
All: Yeah!
Well, I say we each
pick up one piece of trash
and leave!
All: Boo!
(cups clatter)
Smile all you want.
That's it.
I'm calling the hotel
where mom and dad
are staying.
I see what this is.
You're jealous
'cause I've thrown
the greatest party
of all time.
Look around.
It's not your party.
These are all
my friends.
Yo, ari.
Whose party is this?
Erica's throwing
a going-away party
for the swedish dude.
It doesn't matter.
Lexy bloom's here.
She came to see me.
Oh, did she?
Barry, wait.
I didn't mean to...
(sighs)
That did not go well.
No, it did not.
Why are you
so mad at me?
I saw the look
on your face.
You were thrilled
to be back out there
on that court.
You know why I don't talk
about the past?
I'm gonna tell you.
Because it was great.
I was class president.
I was a basketball star.
I was a hero.
And now I'm just
none of those things.
Have you ever tried
shooting the ball this way?
It was a very common
shooting style!
Adult adam:  Turns out,
my dad wasn't the only one
kicking himself.
Barry's big chance
To become a legend
and win over lexy bloom
Had literally been
kissed goodbye.
What's shaking, gustav?
(scoffs)
I wish I was gustav.
Except for that
weird fish lunch
he always brings.
So, why you out here,
missing your own party?
Well, it has
come to my attention
That this
is erica's party,
And I'm just a big, giant,
invisible bag of suck.
Oh, come on.
You're not invisible.
You're barry goldberg,
the guy who freaked out
on the lunch lady
Because they ran out
of pudding.
Why is that the only thing
anyone ever remembers
about me?
Hey, they promised pudding.
They had no pudding.
It was a dark day.
Mmm.
Look, I know you feel like
this year was a bust,
But you did
a ton of cool stuff.
Karate in the talent show.
You're on
the wrestling team.
You did that rap video
About stone cold
groovin' on a ferris wheel.
You like my rap?
It's hilarious.
Wait, that's what
you were going for, right?
Yeah!
How do you know
so much stuff about me?
Your sister's
my best friend.
I've known you
my whole life,
And I can honestly say
there's...
No one like you.
Thanks.
Adult adam:
Who knew my sister's wild,
bad-influence best friend
Would be the one
to remind my brother
that he was special
In his own bizarre,
barry kind of way?
(chuckles)
now stop pouting
And come show
erica's friends
whose party it really is.
Adult adam:
For the first time in ages,
Things were looking up
for my big bro.
It didn't last long.
Oh, god!
Oh, balls!
Uh...Everybody try
and clean up a little bit!
I... I'm going to bed!
Everyone, run!
(screams)
Adult adam:  As barry
watched my parents
get out of that car,
He knew there was
only one thing to do...
Freak out.
Mom! Dad!
Why are you home?
You're supposed to be
at the hotel!
There was a banquet!
Who skips a banquet?
A party?
I don't even like
my own kids,
Let alone a house
full of other people's!
Murray! Oh, my god.
They're wearing
my sweaters!
No! Those aren't yours!
It's a look that's happening!
Watch mtv!
Yeah, I'm sure
all the young boys
Are wearing
leopard sweaters.
Hey!
That's my leopard!
Okay, fine.
Clearly, you're gonna
kill me, and...
Yes! Yes, I am!
Do it, murray.
Do it with your hands.
Just hear me out, please.
I'm nothing like you, dad.
I don't dominate
in high school.
I don't hold
sports records.
People only know me
'cause I get angry
at pudding.
Listen, you've had
your glory days,
And they sounded awesome.
But this, in there,
This is the best
I'm ever gonna do.
Oh, boopie.
That's so sad.
But you are
in so much trouble.
But...Aww.
I'm begging you.
This is my moment.
All I'm asking for
is seven more hours
of nonstop partying.
Absolutely not.
You got 10 minutes.
Seriously?
Yeah, but do me a favor.
Make this a night
you'll always remember.
You are the greatest father
on this planet.
Adult adam:
As my brother
desperately sprinted off
For his 10 minutes
of glory,
My dad realized
he could still be a hero
To someone
who actually mattered.
Awful parenting choice.
Just awful.
You've seen him run.
He needs this.
(bon jovi's
livin' on a prayer playing)
♪ tommy used to work
on the docks
♪ union's been on strike
♪ he's down on his luck
♪ it's tough
♪ so tough
♪ gina works the diner
all day ♪
Adult adam:  This was it...
Barry's year
was coming to a close,
And it all came down
to 10 magical minutes.
♪ working for her man
♪ she brings home her pay
for love
♪ mmm, for love ♪
Adult adam:
He knew there was only
one way to leave his mark.
That was on
the dance floor.
♪ she says
we've got to hold on... ♪
Adult adam:
He may have been a far cry
from michael jackson.
But in that moment,
he sure felt like him.
♪ 'cause it doesn't
make a difference... ♪
It wasn't just
barry's enthusiasm
That brought the crowd
together.
It was his giant '80s
boom box
Blasting out
the anthem of our youth.
And it sounded like this.
♪ we'll give it a shot
All:
♪ oh, we're halfway there
♪ whoa, livin' on a prayer
♪ take my hand
♪ we'll make it, I swear
♪ whoa, livin' on a prayer ♪
Who is that guy?
That's barry goldberg.
This is his party.
(all cheering)
♪ tommy's got his six string
in hock
♪ now he's holding in ♪
Dude, lexy bloom's
looking over here.
♪ what used to make him
talk so tough ♪
What do I do?
I'm gonna help you out.
You ready to
make her jealous?
Make her what?
♪ it's tough
♪ gina dreams
of running away
♪ when she cries
in the night ♪
What are you doing?
Ow! I don't know!
♪ tommy whispers,
"baby, it's okay
♪ "someday"
♪ we've got to hold on
to what we've got ♪
This is the greatest night
of my life!
Yeah!
Time's up!
Get the hell
out of my house!
And leave
my (bleep) sweaters!
Adult adam:  Naturally,
my brother was grounded
for the entire summer.
And you get to take
all my sweaters
to the dry cleaners.
Adult adam:  But sometimes,
those magic moments
are worth it.
I'm very upset.
You have a lot of nerve,
young man.
Adult adam:
It was a night
he'd carry with him forever,
A night
no one could take away.
For one brief moment,
barry goldberg was a legend.
(guitar solo)
You... You want
to hear about, uh,
how I met lou reed?
Uh, yeah.
Okay. It was 1965...
Adult adam:  Sure,
my dad would always be
the kind of guy
Who loved his tv
and his la-z-boy,
But after that fateful night,
He found it easier
to open up a bit more.
Swish, baby!
Ah.
Okay, by my count,
You've missed
the last 22 shots.
Just do it my way once.
(sighs) fine.
♪ oh, we're halfway there
♪ whoa, livin' on a prayer ♪
Swish, baby!
New shooting style!
Adult adam:
And, even crazier,
Barry got my dad,
the free-throw king
Back on the court
for some actual pointers.
Intangibles!
Adult adam:
It didn't help much.
Beverly: Oh, honey.
You're delicious
no matter how bad you are.
Oh, damn it, barry!
Adult adam:
When it comes
to my childhood,
I may not always
remember exactly
when something happened,
Or exactly who was there
But I do know
that it was 1980-something
And it was awesome.
Doo! Doo, doo, doo!
Stop videotaping!
Get out! Mom!
Stop! I swear...
(breathing rapidly)
Death blow.
(grunting)
You're aggravating me,
you little bastard!
He's aggravating me,
the little bastard!
Why are you
hitting yourself, huh?
What did your face
ever do to you?
Ow.
(grunts)
ow.
Open up.
No!
No! No! No! No!
(speaking indistinctly)
no. No. No. No.
(laughs)
Pops: My god.
This house
is going nuts.
This house is
going nuts.
I am optimus prime,
And I am a good guy,
and I will kick your butt!
(knocking on door)
who's there?
Murray: Get dressed now!
Man: Get dressed now.
And this is it.
Ahhh! That hurt!
Ahhh!
Whoa, what a night.
What's up?
You got any oj?
I'm sorry, what the hell
are you doing here?
Ah, I passed out
in the basement
during the party.
Take off my sweater
and get out.
What's in it for me?
Nothing. It's my sweater.
Fine. (sighs)
Show me your boobs.
No.
Then give me
a million dollars.
No.
I'd very much
like to revisit
the boob conversation.
I feel like we've done
this once before.
Did it end in boobs?
No.
Tell me something.
When was the last time
you had a balanced breakfast?
Every day.
Protein from beef jerky,
energy from frosting.
Sweetie, sit down.
I'm gonna make you
some food.
You're gonna eat it.
Then you're gonna
take off my sweater
and get the hell out.
Morning, barry.
(sighs)